Added Connecting to postgres with java guide (#101)
tembo-io/website: docs/postgres_guides/connecting-to-postgres-with-java/connecting-to-postgres-with-java.md

---
sidebar_position: 2
tags:
  - Postgres Basics
---

import AddingJdbc from './images/adding-jdbc.png'

# Connecting to Postgres with Java using JDBC

> In this guide, we will study the step-by-step procedure to establish a connection to the Postgres database with your Java project. We will take advantage of the JDBC (Java Database Connectivity) driver to setup the connection. We will take a look at different approaches to integrate the JDBC driver into your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we will study the step-by-step procedure to establish a connection to the Postgres database with your Java project. We will take advantage of the JDBC (Java Database Connectivity) driver to setup the connection, and then will take a look at different approaches to integrate the JDBC driver into your project.
```

            PreparedStatement preparedStatement = connection.prepareStatement(sql);

            preparedStatement.setString(1, "updated_value");
            preparedStatement.setString(2, "old_value");

            int rowsUpdated = preparedStatement.executeUpdate();
            System.out.println(rowsUpdated + " row(s) updated.");
        }
```

**Create Table**

```
(Connection connection = DriverManager.getConnection(jdbcUrl, username, password)) {
            Statement statement = connection.createStatement();

            String createTableSQL = "CREATE TABLE employees ("
                    + "id serial PRIMARY KEY,"
                    + "name VARCHAR(255),"
                    + "age INT)";

            statement.execute(createTableSQL);

            System.out.println("Table created successfully.");
        }
```

## Conclusion

In this guide, we discussed the step-by-step process to connect to the Postgres database with Java.

Working on a C# project? Explore our [C# guide](https://tembo.io/docs/postgres_guides/connecting-to-postgres-with-c/) to learn how to establish a connection with a PostgreSQL database using C#.

> Also, check out our new extensions [pgmq](https://tembo.io/blog/introducing-pgmq) and [pg_later](https://tembo.io/blog/introducing-pg-later) which can ease your work a lot much.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, check out our new extensions [pgmq](https://tembo.io/blog/introducing-pgmq) and [pg_later](https://tembo.io/blog/introducing-pg-later) which can help you manage basic message and long-running query operations.
```

Author: @ericankenman I have addressed the suggested changes
